>> Eric: Let's go to the mutation
observer now, so the mutation observer is
different because it allows us to track
the changes within the DOM subtree.
So it's very useful for
rich text editors, for instance,
you are trying to select some data and
apply the bold text.
So the mutation observer will
allow us to detect that.
The huge benefit of the mutation observer,
it's implemented on a native level.
So previously in vanilla,
how this mutation observer will be
polyfilled is you're basically
creating a proxy object that
will track every mutation
of any possible subtree.
And this is implemented on a JavaScript
level, so you would need to create,
if you have a large subtree that would
result to some memory issues and
console on a native level, it's very fast.
And the creation of the mutation
observer is pretty simple,
we just need to provide a single callback.
There are no options to the constructor,
and the callback accepts the mutation.
And the observe function
accepts two parameters,
one is the target node that
we're trying to observe, here,
in this example, it's div,
and the observer options.
And the observer options is a bit more
complicated because we can track many
things, so we can configure the observer
to track only the child list.
So this means that if we provide
the child is true, then we go into track
the section in each one because they
are direct child of development.
If we provide the attributes to true,
this means that
the mutation observer will track
any changes in the attributes.
And if you provide the character data
then if we have any text content and
we enter this content using the keyboard,
then the mutation observer can detect
these changes, like on changing,
then on the inputs, and provide us
with the mutation observer entry.
And there is also one cool thing,
is the subtree.
So we can basically say that we
want to track all the elements in
the whole subtree, and we just need
to provide the true flag here.
We can also filter the attributes
that we're currently looking for, and
this will reduce the number of
time the callback is called.
So the best practice is to
make sure that you configure
the observer in the right way.
Try not to overuse the properties,
don't set them to true,
because this will involve invoking
the callback too many times.
>> Speaker 1: So just to clarify,
the child list would just apply
to direct descendants in
the sub tree would be anything?
>> Eric: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Okay?
>> Eric: And there is a conflict
if you apply Charlie's true and
the subtree true, then the sub tree
will not work because the search
Charlie's has the preference,
higher priority, okay?
So the TLDR make sure that you
configure these options right to
reduce possible invocation
of the observer callback.
And the mutation record that
the mutation observer provides
us is basically has a few properties,
so the type, so
the type tells us which
type of mutation happened.
It can be the attribute changed or
some data was entered or removed, or
it they might be that we added a new
DOM element in the direct child list.
So it also has the information
about the target node,
which was triggered the mutation observer.
And we also have the edit nodes array
that will give us any newly added
nodes that were when we inserted some
data in the DOM tree or remove nodes.
And we can also access the old
character data value to see what was
the value before the mutation happened.
And, again, the callback is pretty simple,
we just need to look for
a mutation, filtered by our type,
and by our logic.